The Project Gutenberg eBook of The country seats of the United States of North America
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The country seats of the United States of North America
        With some scenes connected with them

Author: William Birch

Release date: December 6, 2025 [eBook #77411]

Language: English

Original publication: Bristol: William Birch, 1808

Credits: chenzw and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Yale University Library)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COUNTRY SEATS OF THE UNITED STATES OF NORTH AMERICA ***




  _The_

  Country Seats _OF THE UNITED STATES OF_ North America,

  _with some Scenes connected with them_.

  [Illustration: _The Capitol at Washington._]

  _Designed and Published by W. Birch, Enamel Painter,
  Springland near Bristol, Pennsylv.^a 1808._




  DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT:

BE IT REMEMBERED, That on the twentieth day of January, in the
thirty-third year of the Independence of the United States of America,
A. D. 1809, William Birch of the said District, hath deposited in this
Office, the Title of a Book, the Right whereof he claims as Author, in
the words following, to wit:

  “The Country Seats of the United States of North America, with some
  Scenes connected with them.”

In conformity to the Act of the Congress of the United States,
intituled, “An Act for the Encouragement of Learning, by securing the
Copies of Maps, Charts, and Books, to the Authors and Proprietors of
such Copies during the Times therein mentioned.” And also to the Act,
entitled, “An Act supplementary to an Act, entitled, “An act for the
Encouragement of Learning, by securing the Copies of Maps, Charts, and
Books, to the Authors and Proprietors of such Copies during the Time
therein mentioned,” and extending the Benefits thereof to the Arts of
designing, engraving, and etching historical and other Prints.

                                               D. CALDWELL, Clerk of the
                                               District of Pennsylvania.




AMERICAN SEATS.


The Fine Arts are, as to the American Nation at large, in their
infancy; to promote them in propagating Taste with the habit of rural
retirement, supported by the growing wealth of the Nation, will be to
form the National character favourable to the civilization of this
young country, and establish that respectability which will add to its
strength.

The comforts and advantages of a Country Residence, after Domestic
accommodations are consulted, consist more in the beauty of the
situation, than in the massy magnitude of the edifice: the choice
ornaments of Architecture are by no means intended to be disparaged,
they are on the contrary, not simply desirable, but requisite. The
man of taste will select his situation with skill, and add elegance
and animation to the best choice. In the United States the face of
nature is so variegated. Nature has been so sportive, and the means so
easy of acquiring positions fit to gratify the most refined and rural
enjoyment, that labour and expenditure of Art is not so great as in
Countries less favoured.

It would be impossible to do justice in a work, such as this is
intended to be, without appropriating some plates to the sports of wild
unregulated nature: the Woods, Lawns, broken Precipices and Crags: the
curious and sublime of the Forest Trees: the Cataracts and Rivers: the
blue Capt Mountains, and the deep, retired, and darksome Vallies.

Such scenes which decorate the grounds, and form the choicest Pictures
of themselves, and which cannot be brought into the same Plate with the
Villa, will be given separately, as highly necessary to form a full and
correct idea of the American Country Residence.




  _The Country Seats of the United States of North America,_

  _with some Scenes connected with them._

  PART the FIRST

  _Containing Twenty Plates._

  [Illustration: _The View from Springland._]

  _Designed and Published 1808, by W. Birch Enamel Painter, Springland
  near Bristol Pennsylv^a._




[Illustration: View _from Belmont Pennsyl^a. the Seat of_ Judge Peters.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsyl^a._]




[Illustration: China Retreat _Pennsyl^a. the Seat of_ M^r. Manigault.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylv^a._]




[Illustration: Devon _in Pennsylv^a. the_ Seat _of_ M^r. Dallas.

_Painted by T. Birch, Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near
Bristol Pennsylvania._]




[Illustration:

  _Drawn by G. Birch, Cornet of Light Dragoons, U.S. Army._

The Seat _of_ M^r. Duplantier _near_ New Orleans, & _lately occupied as
Head Quarters, by_ Gen^l. J. Wilkinson.

_Engraved & Published by W Birch Springland near Bristol Pennsylv^a._]




[Illustration: _The Sun reflecting on the Dew, a Garden scene._

Echo, _Pennsylv^a. a place belonging to_ M^r. D. Bavarage.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylvania._]




[Illustration: View _from the_ Elysian Bower, _Springland Pennsylv^a.
the residence of_ M^r. W. Birch.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsyl^a._]




[Illustration: Fountain Green _Pennsylv^a. the Seat of_ M^r. S. Meeker.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylvania._]




[Illustration: Hampton _the_ Seat _of_ Gen^l. Cha^s. Ridgley,
_Maryland_.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Penns^a._]




[Illustration: Hoboken _in New Jersey, the_ Seat _of_ M^r. John Stevens.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch, Springland near Bristol,
Pennsylv^a._]




[Illustration: Landsdown _the_ Seat _of the late_ W^m. Bingham
Esq^r. _Pennsylvania_.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylv^a._]




[Illustration: Mendenhall Ferry, _Schuylkill, Pennsylvania_.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylv^a._]




[Illustration: Montibello _the_ Seat _of_ Gen^l. S. Smith _Maryland_.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylv^a._]




[Illustration: Mount Sidney, _the Seat of_ Gen^l. John Barker,
_Pennsylv^a_.

_Drawn, Engraved & Published by W. Birch, Springland, near Bristol,
Pennsylvania._]




[Illustration: Sedgley _the_ Seat _of_ M^r. W^m. Crammond _Pennsylv^a_.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylvania._]




[Illustration: Mount Vernon, _Virginia, the Seat of the late_ Gen^l. G.
Washington.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylv^a._]




[Illustration: Solitude _in Pennsylv^a. belonging to_ M^r. Penn.

_Drawn Engraved & Published by W. Birch Springland near Bristol
Pennsylv^a._]




[Illustration: Woodlands _the_ Seat _of_ M^r. W^m. Hamilton
_Pennsylv^a_.

_Drawn, Engraved & Published by W. Birch, Springland near Bristol,
Pennsylvan^a._]




[Illustration: York-Island, _with a View of the Seats of_ M^r. A.
Gracie, M^r. Church _&c._

_Drawn, Engraved & Published by W Birch, Springland, near Bristol,
Penns^a._]


HOBOKEN,

Is seated upon a prominent rock on the North River; and commands
an extensive view, embracing New-York, Long Island, Staten Island,
Governor’s Island, and the Bay to the Narrows, and, on the other hand,
a perspective of North River.


HAMPTON,

Stands on a spherical rise of ground, from whose valley emerges a wide
amphitheatre of elegant inland country.


LANDSDOWN,

Lies upon the bank of the Pastoral Schuylkill, a stream of peculiar
beauty, deservedly the delight and boast of the shores it fertilizes.
The house was built upon a handsome and correct plan by the former
governor Penn.


ECHO,

An elegant situation on the bank of Schuylkill, near the suburbs of
the city: rich in every wild luxury which nature can afford to the
plastic hand of art. The house is of no note, and its scite not well
chosen. It derives its name from the reverberations given from the
opposite shore--particularly by a rock memorable for having been in
the revolution the place of encampment for the British, while Gen.
Washington and his army were on this spot.


MOUNT VERNON,

This hallowed mansion is founded upon a rocky eminence, a dignified
height on the Potomac. During the French war, Admiral Vernon, who
commanded the British fleet on this station, frequently made visits
to his friend the father of Gen. W. and thence is derived its name.
The additions of a piazza to the water front, and of a drawing room,
are proofs of the legitimacy of the General’s taste. It is now the
residence of Judge Washington.


FOUNTAIN GREEN,

On the Schuylkill, highly favored by nature, and capable of vast
improvement. Upon the half ascent of the bank from the river, the new
canal will pass the house and if ever finished, will become a great
ornament to the place.


SOLITUDE.

Here a pleasing solitude at once speaks the propriety of its title.
Upon further research the solitary rocks, and the waters of Schuylkill
add sublimity to quietness. The house is built with great taste for a
bachelor, by the former Governor John Penn, since the revolution.


DEVON,

An airy and pleasant situation on the Pennsylvania shore of the
Delaware, fourteen miles from Philadelphia. The house was built by Mr.
Jos. Anthony.


MOUNT SIDNEY,

Derives its honorable name from the patriot Algernon, who died in the
reign of Charles II. a martyr to liberty. Its sylvan scene mingle with
the romantic wilds of Sedgely.


THE SEAT OF MR. DUPLANTIER,

Exhibits a style of building familiar to the West Indies, and well
adapted to the warm climate of our newly acquired territory. The
situation is verdant, and throughout the year, the air is fragrant with
the perfume of orange groves. In the distance is descried the port and
shipping of New Orleans.


MONTIBELLO,

Handsomely seated amid the woods, a few miles from Baltimore, and
commanding a prospect of the Chesapeake and Baltimore Bays. The house
was built by Gen. S. Smith, from a plan and elevation designed by Mr.
W. Birch, the proprietor of this work, and is generally approved.


WOODLANDS.

This noble demesne has long been the pride of Pennsylvania. The
beauties of nature and the rarities of art, not more than the
hospitality of the owner, attract to it many visitors. It is charmingly
situated on the winding Schuylkill, and commands one of the most
superb water scenes that can be imagined. The ground is laid out in
good taste. There are here a hot house and green house containing a
collection in the horticultural department, unequalled perhaps in the
United States. Paintings &c. of the first master embellish the interior
of the house, and do credit to Mr. Wm. Hamilton, as a man of refined
taste.... It is about a mile from the city of Philadelphia.


SEDGELY.

This beautiful gothic structure, which so happily graces the luxuriant
banks of Schuylkill, is in the neighbourhood of Landsdown, which
is seen in the distance on the opposite side of the river, whose
gentle stream courses lowly and humble, amidst romantic woods, gently
descending lawns and caverned rocks. The house was erected by Mr.
Crammond, from a design by that able architect, Mr. J. H. Latrobe.


BELMONT.

It is impossible for the artist, who has fixed his attention upon the
various beauties of Schuylkill, to leave the study of its charms. Here
you pass from the wild romantic scene; the rugged stone with wood and
water bound to expand the sight from this high lifted lawn, to view
in open space the world below, the riches of the richest state; the
big metropolis in the woods, the chequered country with her merchants’
seats; the bustle of agriculture, and the verdant banks of the fluid
mirror that reflects the sky; and further on to view Mount Holly
mingled with the air in Jersey. The whole a soft and visionary scene.


YORK ISLAND.

This view is taken from the piazza of the seat of General Stevens on
Long Island, near that extraordinary channel called Hell-gate, on the
East river, or sound. The view was taken in the morning at the rising
of the sun, when a glow of light from the arch of Heaven, exhibited to
the view almost innumerable seats, spread over an extensive country
which glittered as the sun arose, like so many stars in the firmament,
upon the face of this beautifully variegated Island. The scene
extending across the North river to the Jersey shore.


MENDENHALL FERRY.

This beautiful spot close upon the falls of Schuylkill, and central to
the neighbouring seats of Philadelphia, is one of nature’s choicest
retreats. Mr. Mendenhall, to accommodate the citizens, has opened his
house for public entertainment. The two seats on the bank, are those of
Mr. Joseph Sims, and the justly celebrated Dr. Physick, the latter is
called very appropriately Fairy Hill.


CHINA RETREAT.

An airy and pleasant situation on the Delaware, 17 miles from
Philadelphia. The house was built by Mr. Van Braam, late ambassador
from Holland to China. It was here he prepared for the press his
account of that embassy together with the manners and characters of the
Chinese, and which was published at a great expense in London. Now the
summer residence of the family of Mr. Manigaull, of S. Carolina.


SPRINGLAND.

This spot chosen by the artist for the exercise of his taste in
retirement has peculiar beauties from nature. Art has added much to it,
and the cottage is embellished with a small, but very fine collection
of paintings by some of the first masters. This volume with his other
works may be had at this place.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


Superscripted text is expressed as “text^superscripted”.

Landsdown illustration: corrected misprinted punctuation.

China Retreat: corrected typo “he” to “the”.

Springland: corrected typo “shosen” to “chosen”.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COUNTRY SEATS OF THE UNITED STATES OF NORTH AMERICA ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


